#summary Control Port

=AOLserver Control Port (nscp.so)=

==Introduction==
AOLserver includes a control port interface that can be enabled with the nscp module. This control port interface allows you to telnet to a specified host and port where you can administer the server and execute commands while the server is running; the only exceptions being the ns_conn commands which need a connection.

To administer a server with the control port interface while it is running, the nscp module must be loaded into the server. To set permissions for the server, the nsperm module must also be loaded. To execute database commands while the server is running, you must also configure database services for the server, including database drivers and pools.

==Configuration==
An example configuration for the control port interface is shown below. Three sections of the configuration file are included. The nscp module is loaded into the /modules section for servername. The /module/nscp section defines the control port parameters, and the /module/nscp/users section defines the users who can log into the control port.
{{{
    # For security, use 127.0.0.1 only.
    #
    ns_section "ns/server/$server/module/nscp"
        ns_param port 9999
        ns_param address 127.0.0.1

    # The user param is "$user:$pwd".
    # $pwd is encryted using ns_crypt.
    # sample user="nsadmin", pw="x".
    #
    ns_section "ns/server/$server/module/nscp/users"
        ns_param user "nsadmin:t2GqvvaiIUbF2:"

    ns_section "ns/server/${servername}/modules"
        ns_param nscp nscp.so
}}}

==Usage==
{{{
    [neon:~] Michael% telnet 127.0.0.1 9999
    Trying 127.0.0.1...
    Connected to localhost.
    Escape character is '^]'.
    login:nsadmin
    Password:x

    Welcome to tool running at /usr/local/aolserver/bin/nsd (pid 7884)
    AOLserver/4.5.0 (aolserver4_5) for osx built on Jan  4 2007 at 17:11:28
    CVS Tag: $Name:  $
    server1:nscp 1> ns_time
    1168308907
    server1:nscp 2> join [lsort [info commands ns_*time*]] \n
    ns_buildsqltime
    ns_buildsqltimestamp
    ns_fmttime
    ns_gmtime
    ns_httptime
    ns_localsqltimestamp
    ns_localtime
    ns_parsehttptime
    ns_parsesqltime
    ns_parsesqltimestamp
    ns_parsetime
    ns_time
    server1:nscp 3> exit

    Goodbye!
    Connection closed by foreign host.
    [neon:~] Michael% 
}}}

==Best Practices==
Type {{{lsort [info commands]}}} for a complete list of commands available to you. You can type nearly any Tcl command available to AOlserver Tcl libraries and ADPs. This includes the complete Tcl core and nearly any {{{ns_*}}} command. Type {{{lsort [info commands ns*]}}} for a sorted list of AOLserver Tcl commands.

===Useful commands:===

{{{ns_shutdown}}} - Shuts down the server. 

{{{ns_info uptime}}} - How long the server has been running. 

{{{exit}}} - Exit the control port.